The historical direct diversion file (\*.ddh), provides historic monthly diversions for a list of structures. 
For the base datasets, it is the same file used by the Water Resources Planning Model, StateMod, which contains 
actual diversions for explicitly and aggregated modeled structures.  Water supply contained in the historical 
direct diversion file (\*.ddh) represents river headgate diversions, not the supply delivered to the crop. 
StateCU uses the ditch and application efficiencies read in the irrigation parameter yearly data (\*.ipy) file 
to estimate the water available to the crop.  Missing data is accepted using a –999 placeholder.  The file can 
contain more structures than defined by the structure location file (\*.str).  If structures defined in the 
structure location file (\*.str) are not included in the historical direct diversion file, for instance because 
they are irrigated only with ground water, StateCU sets historical direct diversions to ‘0’. The total years 
can be more than the study defined in the model control file by **`nyr1`** and **`nyr2`** (see [Section 4.4](../InputDescription/44.md)).  The data can 
be in calendar year or water year.  This file is only read if a water supply option is defined in the model 
control file (**`isuply`**`> 0`).  An example is provided in [Appendix A](../AppendixA/A1.md). 

 | Row-Data | Program Variable | Description |
    | ------------ | ------------- | ------------- |
	| Row 1 | Format (6x, i4, 11x, i4, 7x, a3) | |
	| 1-1 | gnyr1 | Beginning year of diversion data |
	| 1-2 | gnyr2 | Ending year of diversion data |
	| 1-3 | idum3 | CYR for calendar year or WYR for water year |
	| | | |
	| Row 2 | Format (i4, 1x, a12, 12(f8.2)) | |
	| 2-1 | tyr | Year |
	| 2-2 | tid | Structure ID |
	| 2-3 | divsup(1,tyr,1-12) | Diversions for months 1-12 (acre-feet) |
	
Repeat for the number of diversion structures.

Repeat for each year **`gnyr1`** through **`gnyr2`**.