The surface water direct use file (\*.swd) can be used for diversion structures when the groundwater use mode 
for a structure is set to 3 (__`gmode`__`= 3`) in the irrigation parameter yearly data file (\*.ipy). The file
can specify annual amounts of surface water in acre-feet used directly in sprinklers with groundwater supplies
(gw-sprinkler) or the annual acres of gw-sprinklers that are using surface water directly.  By default for structures 
using a __`gmode`__`= 3` setting, available surface water is not consumed in gw-sprinkler acres but is recharged. 
But when the \*.swd file is included in the StateCU response file, specified amounts of surface water can be consumed 
in gw-sprinkler acres rather than recharged.  In the file, rows of data are oriented as year, type, structure, and value. 
Entries with a type of 1 indicate that an annual value in acre-feet is being supplied, while a type 2 
indicates that a value in acres is being supplied.  Annual type 1 amounts are distributed monthly based on 
the monthly distribution of surface water diversions at the river headgate.  The monthly value acre-foot value 
is subtracted from the monthly recharge amount and added to the surface water applied to the gw-sprinkler acreage 
for the structure.  With type 2, the monthly farm surface water diversion is multiplied by the ratio of the acre 
value to the total structure area to determine a surface water amount, and this amount is subtracted from the 
monthly recharge amount and added to the surface water applied to the gw-sprinkler acreage for the structure.
Note that specified amounts or acreages will only be applied for structures with __`gmode`__`= 3`.
An example is provided in [Appendix A](../AppendixA/A1.md).


 | Row-Data | Program Variable | Description |
    | ------------ | ------------- | ------------- |
	| Row 1 | Format (i4, 1x, i4, 1x, a12, f9.1) | |
	| 1-1 | tyr | Year |
	| 1-2 | swdtype | Type (1 or 2)|
	| 1-3 | tid | Structure ID |
	| 1-4 | swdval | Annual acre-feet (1) or acreage (2)|

Repeat for each year **`tyr`** and each structure **`tid`** for which surface water direct use or acres are specified.
Multiple entries for the same year and structure (including mixing Type 1 and Type 2 entries) can be specified 
and will be added together.
