Monthly crop evapotranspiration (ET), or potential consumptive use (PCU), can be determined at a specific
location (climate station, structure, farm, etc.) using the Soil Conservation Service (SCS) Blaney-Criddle
method outlined in _Irrigation Water Requirements Technical Release 21_ (SCS TR-21, 1970), the FAO-24
original Blaney-Criddle method (FAO, 1977), or the Pochop Method for bluegrass outlined in _Elevation – A
Bias Error in SCS Blaney-Criddle ET Estimates_ (ASAE, 1984). Daily ET can be determined using the
Penman-Monteith, ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith, or Modified Hargreaves approach. The potential
consumptive use for a CU location is determined based a unit acreage and corresponding crop type assigned
to a climate station (_Climate Station Scenario_) or an actual acreage and crop types associated with a
structure (_Structure Scenario_).

The potential crop consumptive use estimates can be reduced by an amount of monthly or daily precipitation
considered effective at serving crop needs to determine the irrigation water requirement. In the case of a
monthly consumptive use method, only monthly effective precipitation methods are available. With a daily
consumptive use method, both monthly and daily effective precipitation methods are available. 

##3.1.1 - Monthly Potential Consumptive Use ##

###3.1.1.1 - SCS TR-21 Modified or Original Blaney-Criddle Method ###

StateCU allows either the SCS TR-21 modified Blaney-Criddle or the original Blaney-Criddle procedure to
estimate monthly evapotranspiration (ET). The empirical equation relates ET with mean air temperature and
mean percentage daytime hours. The SCS TR-21 method was modified from the original Blaney-Criddle
method to reasonably estimate short-period consumptive use. The modifications include the use of (1)
climatic coefficients that are directly related to the mean air temperature for each of the consecutive short
periods which constitutes the growing season and (2) coefficients which reflect the influence of the crop
growth rates on consumptive use rates (SCS TR-21). 

The basic relationship assumes that ET varies directly with the products of mean monthly air temperature
and monthly percentage of annual daylight hours for an actively growing crop with adequate soil moisture.
This is expressed mathematically as: 


$$
 u = kf\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(1)
$$

$$
 U = KF = \sum(kf) \;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(2)
$$

Where \\(U\\) is the estimated ET in inches for the growing season; \\(K\\) is the empirical consumptive use
coefficient for the growing season; \\(F\\) is the sum of monthly consumptive use factors for the growing season;
\\(k\\) is the monthly consumptive use crop coefficient by month and crop; \\(u\\) is the monthly consumptive use of
the crop in inches; and \\(f = t p/100\\), where \\(t\\) is the mean monthly air temperature and \\(p\\) is the mean monthly
percentage of annual daytime hours. 

The SCS TR-21 modification includes the use of a composite climatic crop coefficient:

$$
 K = k_t k_c \;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(3)
$$

where \\(k_t = 0.0173t – 0.314\\) with the modified Blaney-Criddle method and \\(k_t = 1\\) with the original method;
and \\(k_c\\) is the coefficient reflecting the growth stage of the crop. The values are obtained from the crop
growth stage coefficient curves prepared for each crop. Examples of crop curves for 25 crops are provided
in SCS TR-21. 

###3.1.1.2 - SCS TR-21 Modified or Original Blaney-Criddle Method with ET Elevation Adjustment  ###

The _ASCE Manuals and Reports on Engineering Practice No. 70, Evapotranspiration and Irrigation Water
Requirements_ (1990), recommends elevation adjustments for both the SCS and the FAO-24 Blaney-Criddle
methods of 10% adjustment upward for each 1,000 meters increase in elevation above sea level. The
adjustment corrects for lower mean temperatures that occur at higher elevations at a given level of solar
radiation (i.e. mean temperatures do not reflect crops’ reactions to warm daytime temperatures and cool
nights). The adjustment is applied to the potential consumptive use estimate and can be applied to any crop
type. Note, however, that if locally calibrated crop coefficients are used in lieu of standard SCS or FAO-24
crop coefficients, the mean temperature correction is represented, and an additional elevation adjustment
should not be applied. 

###3.1.1.3 - SCS TR-21 Modified or Original Blaney-Criddle Method with ET Elevation Adjustment  ###

StateCU also allows the use of the Pochop Method for bluegrass (lawn grass). StateCU applies the
recommended modifications to the SCS Blaney-Criddle formula to calculate bluegrass potential
consumptive use with the Pochop Method. The original research by Pochop, et.al. also described a
methodology for adjusting alfalfa. Based on discussions with Pochop, the Colorado Division of Water
Resources no longer applies this methodology to adjust the calculated PCU for alfalfa and this method
should __only__ be used with bluegrass. The recommended crop naming convention to distinguish a crop with
the Pochop Method is `BLUEGRASS.POCHOP`.

The three modifications included in StateCU, as recommended for the Pochop Method are as follows: 

1. Temperature Coefficient – The bluegrass temperature coefficient (\\(k_t\\)) in English units is calculated
as: 
$$
 k_t = 0.00328t + 0.65011 \;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(4)
$$
where \\(t = \\) temperature in degrees F.
    
2. Crop Growth State Coefficients – Following are the calibrated bluegrass crop growth stage
coefficients \\((k_c)\\): 
    
    | Month | Coefficient \\((kc)\\) |
    | ------------ | ------------- |
    | April | 0.97 |
    | May | 1.00 | 
    | June | 1.10 | 
    | July | 1.06 | 
    | August | 0.98 | 
    |September | 0.97 | 
    | October | 0.89 |
    
3. Elevation Adjustment – The base elevation for the bluegrass crop growth stage coefficients shown
above is 4,429 feet (1,350 meters). The Pochop Method recommends elevation adjustments to
account for increased or decreased evapotranspiration at elevations above or below the ‘base’
elevation as follows: 
    
    __April, May, and September:__
	
    2.9% per 1,000 feet (9.4% per 1,000 meters) above or below the base elevation
    
	__June through August:__
	
    2.3% per 1,000 feet (7.6% per 1,000 meters) above or below the base elevation 
	
    The Pochop Method includes at elevation adjustment in the equation, therefore an additional elevation
    adjustment should not be applied.
	
##3.1.2 - Monthly Effective Precipitation  ##

###3.1.2.1 - Irrigation Season Precipitation  ###

Effective precipitation (i.e. effective rainfall, \\(R_e\\)) is the component of precipitation that is available to meet
consumptive use. It does not include precipitation lost through runoff and deep percolation below the root
zone. StateCU estimates the monthly effective precipitation using one of two methods. The first method is
based on the SCS methodology in which effective precipitation is dependent on the net depth of application
and average monthly consumptive use. It is expressed mathematically as follows: 

$$
 R_e = (0.7091 R_t^{0.82416} - 0.11556)(10^{0.02426 c_u})F\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(5)
$$

where: \\(R_e\\) is the average monthly effective precipitation; \\(R_t\\) is the total monthly precipitation; \\(c_u\\) is the
average monthly consumptive use; \\(F\\) is a function of \\(D\\); and \\(D\\) is the net depth of application \\((F = 0.531747
+ 0.295164(D) – 0.057697(D^2) + 0.003804(D^3))\\). It should be noted that \\(R_e\\) can not exceed average monthly
precipitation or \\(c_u\\). When this happens, \\(R_e\\) is set equal to the lesser of the two. 

The second method is based on the United State Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) methodology in which the
effective precipitation (\\(R_e\\)) is linearly related to the monthly precipitation (\\(R_t\\)). Different linear
relationships are used for different ranges of precipitation. They are expressed as follows:

$$
R_e =
  \begin{cases}
    0.95 R_t       & \quad \text{if } R_t < 1.0\;inch\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(6)\\
    0.90 (R_t-1.0) + 0.95      & \quad \text{if } 1.0 < R_t < 2.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(7)\\
	0.82 (R_t-2.0) + 1.85      & \quad \text{if } 2.0 < R_t < 3.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(8)\\
	0.65 (R_t-3.0) + 2.67      & \quad \text{if } 3.0 < R_t < 4.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(9)\\
	0.45 (R_t-4.0) + 3.32      & \quad \text{if } 4.0 < R_t < 5.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(10)\\
	0.25 (R_t-5.0) + 3.77      & \quad \text{if } 5.0 < R_t < 6.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(11)\\
	0.05 (R_t-6.0) + 4.02      & \quad \text{if } R_t > 6.0\;inches\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\,(12)
  \end{cases}
$$

Monthly effective precipitation methods can be used with both monthly and daily consumptive use analyses.
When a monthly effective precipitation method is used in daily consumptive use analyses, StateCU requires
a daily precipitation file that is summed on a monthly basis by the program and then applies either the SCS
or USBR effective precipitation calculations depending on the user input. 

###3.1.2.2 - Non-Irrigation Season (Winter) Precipitation  ###

The StateCU soil moisture accounting system allows the user to select the option to add a percentage of total
winter (non-growing season) precipitation to the soil moisture ‘reservoir’ so that it is available for the crops
to use at the beginning of the growing season. Total winter precipitation volume is calculated as total 
nonirrigation season precipitation times that year’s irrigated acreage, reduced by the user-defined effective
percentage. These volumes are further reduced, as necessary, so their total will fit into the available
capacity of the soil moisture reservoir (total capacity less water stored during previous irrigation season).

In this context ‘winter’ is defined as the non-growing season for the entire collection of crops under the
structure, i.e. when the calculated potential ET for the structure is zero. Since crop seasons vary and
structures often have multiple crops, this assures that there is not winter carry-over in the soil reservoir
under some crops in the same month that other crops might be using soil moisture. It also assures there is no
double accounting of precipitation distribution – precipitation can not be effective in meeting crop demands
under a ditch at the same time it is being stored in the soil zone as winter carry-over.

In the first month of each year that potential ET for the collection of crops under a structure is greater than
zero, the accumulated winter precipitation soil moisture volumes from the previous months are available and
are used to reduce the irrigation water requirement (IWR) of the crops under the structure. This is done
before using other sources (surface water diversions, other soil moisture, or ground water pumping). At this
point in the calculations the IWR has already been calculated as the crop potential ET minus the current
month’s effective precipitation.

If the current month’s surface water diversions are in excess of what is needed to meet the remaining IWR,
that water (at the same application efficiency) is used to fill empty space in the soil moisture reservoir. If
the soil moisture reservoir is full and there is still winter precipitation carry-over in the soil, it will be
replaced (i.e. ‘pushed out’) by the surface water diversions to the extent necessary. This common approach
maximizes the use of diverted water to meet crop consumptive use.

##3.1.3 - Daily Penman-Monteith Crop ET  ##

The Penman-Monteith method for determining daily reference crop ET uses minimum and maximum
temperature, vapor pressure, solar radiation and wind run data. Reference crop ET for alfalfa is the rate at
which water, if available, is removed by the processes of evaporation and transpiration from soil and plant
surfaces expressed as the depth of water used by a standard reference crop per unit time. 

The Penman-Monteith equations used to determine daily ET are from the ASCE Manual No. 70
_Evapotranspiration and Irrigation Water Requirements_ (ASCE-70) for alfalfa as follows:

$$
 \lambda ET_r = \frac{\Delta(R_n-G)+\gamma((5360/T-4.02)U(e_a-e_d))}{\Delta+\gamma(1+\rho-33U)}\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(13)
$$

where \\(\lambda ET_r\\) is the vapor flux density for the base reference in mega joules per day per area in meters
squared \\([MJm^{-2}d^{-1}]\\) of alfalfa; \\(R_n\\) is the net radiation flux density to the plant canopy \\([MJm^{-2}d^{-1}]\\) ; \\(G\\) is the
soil heat flux density \\([MJm^{-2}d^{-1}]\\) ; \\(\Delta\\) is the slope of the saturation vapor pressure curve \\([kPa(^oC)^{-1}]\\); \\(\gamma\\) is the
psychometric constant \\([kPa(^oC)^{-1}]\\); \\(e_a\\) and \\(e_d\\) are the saturation vapor pressures at the current and dew-point
air temperature, respectively \\([kPa]\\); \\(\rho\\) is the atmospheric density \\([Kgm^{-3}]\\); \\(\lambda\\) is the latent heat of vaporization
\\([MJKg^{-1}]\\); and \\(U\\) is the wind speed \\([ms^{-1}]\\). 

The daily ET of a particular crop is estimated from the expression: 

$$
 ET = k_c ET_r\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(14)
$$

where \\(k_c\\) is the experimentally derived crop coefficient. The crop coefficients are empirical ratios of
specific crop ET to the ET of the reference crop. The \\(k_c\\) is derived from control experiments and its value
depends on the crop’s growth stage, crop canopy characteristics, and surface soil moisture conditions. The
same reference ET values should be used to estimate the ET as were used in developing the \\(k_c\\) values. It
should be noted that the monthly crop coefficients developed for the SCS TR-21 Blaney-Criddle method
should not be used for Equation 14. 

##3.1.4 - Daily ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith Crop ET ##

The Penman-Monteith method was ranked as the number one (most accurate) method for potential
consumptive use determinations in a detailed review presented by Jensen (1970). The primary required
inputs to the 1965 implementation of the Penman-Monteith equation include temperatures (maximum and
minimum air, and dewpoint), solar radiation, vapor pressure and wind speed. Jensen describes many
secondary equations (i.e. air density, latent heat of vaporization, canopy resistance) used in the PenmanMonteith calculation. The result is a very technical and complicated calculation process to arrive at a
Penman-Monteith consumptive use value.

In 1999, the Irrigation Association requested a technical committee of the American Society of Civil
Engineers (ASCE) that is involved with evapotranspiration to propose one standardized equation and set of
procedures for calculating evapotranspiration. The goal was a consistent model that would have wide
acceptance. A subcommittee (task force), chaired by Ivan Walter of Colorado, initiated meetings and
debates to arrive at a standardized equation. The result of this process was that two equations (one for a
short crop named \\(ET_o\\) and one for a taller crop named \\(ET_r\\)) were developed. These equations were based on
framework suggested in a FAO56 (Allen, 1998) document that assumed a constant for the psychometric
constant, simplified the air density term and simplified the vapor aerodynamic resistance term. For each
type of reference crop (short or tall), constants were assigned in the ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith
equation for the vegetation height, latent heat of vaporization, and surface resistance. The resulting equation
for ET (for both short and taller crops) is: 

$$
 ET_{sz} = \frac{.408 \Delta (R_n-G) + \gamma (C_n/(T+273)) U_2({e_s}^o-e_a)}{\Delta + \gamma (1+C_dU_2)}\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(15)
$$

Where \\(ET_{sz}\\) is the standardized reference crop evapotranspiration for a short or tall reference crop, \\(\Delta\\) is the
slope of saturated vapor pressure curve, \\(R_n\\) is the net radiation flux, \\(G\\) is the sensible heat flux into the soil, \\(\gamma\\)
is the psychometric constant, \\(C_n\\) is the numerator constant for the reference crop type and time step (see table
below), \\(T\\) is the temperature (usually daily mean air temperature), \\(U_2\\) is the wind speed, \\({e_s}^o\\) is the mean
saturated vapor pressure, \\(e_a\\) is the mean daily ambient vapor pressure, \\(C_d\\) is the denominator constant for the
reference crop type and time step (see table below).

__Values of \\(C_n\\) and \\(C_d\\):__

| Calculation Time Step | Short Reference Crop \\((ET_{os})\\) || Tall Reference Crop \\((ET_{rs})\\) ||
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| | \\(C_n\\) | \\(C_d\\) | \\(C_n\\) | \\(C_d\\) |
| Daily | 900 | .34 | 1600 | .38 |
| Hourly, daytime | 37 | .24 | 66 | .25 |
| Hourly, nighttime | 37 | .96 | 66 | 1.7 |

The units of the variables in the ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith Equation and more detail on the
calculation process can be found in the manual and associated appendices for the ASCE Standardized
Penman-Monteith equation available from www.kimberly.uidaho.edu/water/asceewri/.

While the ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith equation remains complicated, considerable simplification
and standardization has been performed compared to previous versions of the Penman-Monteith equation.
Real life performance tests reported at an April 2004 seminar (Colorado Bar, 2004), demonstrate good
agreement between results using the ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith equation and measured
evapotranspiration. This equation appears to have the support of most of the experts in crop consumptive
use calculations. StateCU supports the ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith methodology for tall (alfalfabased) crops. 

##3.1.5 - Daily Modified Hargreaves Crop ET ##

StateCU uses a Modified Hargreaves radiation method to estimate ET that was developed by Agro
Engineering, Inc. This method was specifically developed for the San Luis Valley and should be used with
caution in other areas. The original Hargreaves method used temperature and radiation data to estimate ET
for an Alta fescue grass crop. The Modified Hargreaves approach includes a wind function to recognize the
advective transfer of water away from plant stomatal openings under windy conditions as follows: 

$$
 ET_o = (F R_s T_{avg})/1498.6\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(16)
$$

where \\(R_s\\) is the incoming short wave solar radiation in langleys \\([cal/cm^2/day]\\) and \\(T_{avg}\\) is the average daily
temperature in degrees Fahrenheit. The \\(1498.6\\) term represents the latent heat of vaporization at 55 degrees
Fahrenheit multiplied by the density of water. The latent heat of vaporization term converts the solar
radiation from langleys to inches of water per day. The following wind function, \\(F\\), is used in the model.
Note that this function was developed for the San Luis Valley, and may not be appropriate for other areas. 

$$
F =
  \begin{cases}
    0.0080       & \quad \text{if } U_2 < 80\\
    0.0085       & \quad \text{if } 80 \leq U_2 \leq 120\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(17)\\
	0.0090       & \quad \text{if } U_2 > 120
  \end{cases}
$$

where \\(U_2\\) represents the wind run at a two meter height in miles per day. The wind function has units of \\([^oF^{-1}]\\). 

A crop coefficient is used to convert the reference ET into the actual ET used by the crop. The crop
coefficients are a function of crop variety, canopy development, and stage of growth. The actual ET is
calculated as follows: 

$$
 ET = K_c * ET_o\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(18)
$$

where \\(K_c\\) is the crop coefficient for a crop growing under conditions of optimum fertility and soil moisture
and achieving full production and water use potential. The crop coefficient is calculated as follows: 

$$
K =
  \begin{cases}
    K1                                                      & \quad \text{if } D_{plant} \leq \ D < D_{10\%}\\
    K1+(K2-K1)(D-D_{10\%})/(D_{cover}-D_{10\%})             & \quad \text{if } D_{10\%} \leq \ D < D_{cover}\\
	K2                                                      & \quad \text{if } D_{cover} \leq \ D < D_{mature}\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(19)\\
	K2+(K3-K2)(D-D_{mature})/(D_{harvest}-D_{mature})       & \quad \text{if } D_{mature} \leq \ D < D_{harvest}\\
	K3                                                      & \quad \text{if } D_{harvest} \leq \ D
  \end{cases}
$$

where \\(D\\) is the current day of the year, \\(D_{10\%}\\) is the date of 10 percent cover, \\(D_{cover}\\) is the date of effective full
cover, \\(D_{mature}\\) is the date of the start of maturity, and \\(D_{harvest}\\) is the date of harvest. Note that for alfalfa and
pasture grass, \\(D\\) can exceed the harvest date. \\(K1\\), \\(K2\\), and \\(K3\\) are the values of the crop coefficient at 10
percent cover, effective full cover, and harvest respectively. 

##3.1.6 - Daily Effective Precipitation ##

Daily effective precipitation (i.e. effective rainfall, \\(R_e\\)) may be estimated in StateCU using three methods
that can be selected by the user. Daily effective precipitation methods can only be used with daily
consumptive use analyses. The first method uses a user-specified maximum effective precipitation in inches
per day. In this method the effective precipitation (\\(R_e\\)) is equal to the total daily precipitation (\\(R_t\\)) if \\(R_t\\) is
less than or equal to the user-specified maximum effective rainfall. If \\(R_t\\) is greater than the user-specified
maximum, the \\(R_e\\) is assumed to be equal to the user-specified maximum effective rainfall. 

The second method estimates a fixed percentage of total rainfall as effective as follows: 

$$
 R_e = F R_t\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(20)
$$

where \\(R_e\\) is the daily effective precipitation; \\(F\\) is a user-specified factor with the value ranging from 0 to 1,
and \\(R_t\\) is the daily total rainfall. 

The third method is based on the SCS NEH4 method for estimating direct runoff from storm rainfall (SCS
NEH, 1964). Effective precipitation is calculated from the difference of the total daily precipitation and the
estimated runoff. The direct runoff is estimated from the following expression: 

$$
 R_o = (P-(0.2S))^2/(P+(0.8S))\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(21)
$$

where \\(R_o\\) is the runoff; \\(P\\) is the potential maximum runoff; and \\(S\\) is the potential maximum abstraction. The
potential maximum runoff can be assumed equal to the total precipitation of the day. The \\(S\\) value can be
calculated from the expression: 

$$
 S = (1000/CN-10)\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;(22)
$$

where the parameter \\(CN\\) is the runoff curve number or hydrologic soil cover complex number. The three
required \\(CN\\) values, provided to StateCU by the user, represent \\(CN\\) values for antecedent moisture
conditions I, II, and III estimated based on the soil type, and the land use and treatment classes. StateCU
determines which antecedent moisture condition applies based on the total precipitation in the 5-day period
preceding the storm. 

##3.1.7 - Climate Station Weighting and Orographic Adjustments ##

Climate station data can be combined and ‘weighted’ to better represent the location of irrigated lands.
StateCU allows the user to assign up to five climate stations and corresponding weights factors. If the
location of irrigated lands is midway between two climate stations, the user can select both climate stations
with a weight of 50 percent each. For each month, the temperature used in the ET calculation will be 0.50
times the first climate station plus 0.50 times the second climate station. The precipitation data can also be
weighted for the effective precipitation calculation.

An orographic adjustment can be used to adjust climate station data to the location of the irrigated lands.
This type of adjustment is commonly applied when irrigated lands are at a location that varies significantly
from nearby climate stations. Data from multiple climate stations can also be weighted then used in the
adjustment, for instance in areas with better climate station coverage.

StateCU currently allows an orographic adjustment only with the monthly consumptive use methods
(Modified Blaney-Criddle, Original Blaney-Criddle, or Pochop). There is a separate adjustment factor for
temperature and precipitation data. The temperature adjustment is based on a user-specified degree
Fahrenheit per 1,000 foot rise in elevation between the structure elevation and the climate station elevation.
If the climate station is located at a lower elevation than the structure, then the temperature values are
adjusted downward. If the climate station is located at a higher elevation than the structure, then the
temperature values are adjusted upward. The precipitation adjustment is based on a user-specified ratio that
is used to adjust the total precipitation data at the climate station. Commonly used adjustments are as
follows: 

__Temperature Adjustment__ - Adjust the temperature down by 3.6 degrees per 1,000 feet rise in
elevation (based on the standard meteorological Environmental Lapse Rate).

__Precipitation Adjustment__ - Using annual precipitation maps, compute the ratio of the annual
precipitation at the location of the irrigated acreage divided by the annual precipitation at the climate
station, then multiply the monthly values at the climate station by the ratio to estimate monthly
values at the irrigated lands. 

When the orographic adjustment is initially selected through the StateCU GUI, the GUI displays the default
temperature adjustment of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit per 1,000 feet and the default precipitation adjustment of
1.0 (no adjustment). These default adjustments can be changed and saved through the GUI.

Note that orographic adjustment is independent of the ET elevation adjustment and may be applied to
temperature data that is then used in the Modified or Original Blaney-Criddle method with elevation
adjustment. A separate elevation adjustment is already built into the Pochop method. 

##3.1.8 - Crop Coefficients##

StateCU allows user-specified crop coefficients to be entered and applied with any of the PCU methods.
The recommended crop naming convention to distinguish between crop coefficients is
`CROP_NAME.XXXX` where the ‘XXXX’ extension describes the type of coefficients. StateCU
automatically recognizes the following crop coefficient identifiers associated with crop coefficients from the
original ET methods or calibrated crop coefficients developed and documented under CDSS efforts and
other planning efforts: 

| Source | Identifier | CU Method | Description |
|--------|------------|-----------|-------------|
| SCS TR-21 | CROP_NAME.TR21 | Modified B-C | SCS TR-21 crop coefficients |
| SPDSS Calibrated Coefficient\\(^1\\) | CROP_NAME.CCUP CROP_NAME.CCLP | Modified B-C | Upper South Platte and Lower South Platte coefficients developed by calibrating modified Blaney-Criddle to the ASCE Penman-Monteith method |
| RGDSS Calibrated Coefficient\\(^2\\) | CROP_NAME.CCRG | Modified B-C | developed by calibrating modified Blaney-Criddle to the Daily Modified Hargreaves method |
| Denver Water South Park Study Calibrated Coefficients\\(^3\\) | CROP_NAME.DWHA | Original B-C | high altitude grass pasture coefficients developed for Denver Water by calibrating lysimeter data to the original Blaney-Criddle method |
| Calibrated Coefficients for the Upper Gunnison Subordination Report | CROP_NAME.UGHA | Original B-C | high altitude grass pasture coefficients developed and used by the UGRWCD for the 'Subordination of the Wayne N. Aspinall Unit Water Rights within the Upper Gunnison Basin' annual report |
| Pochop Method | CROP_NAME.POCHOP | Pochop | bluegrass crop coefficients developed for use with the Pochop Method |
| ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith | CROP_NAME.ASCEPM | ASCE Std P-M | ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith crop coefficients |
| Agro Engineering Inc. | CROP_NAME.MHG | Modified Hargreaves | Daily Modified Hargreaves crop coefficients |

\\(^1\\)The Upper South Platte calibrated coefficients were developed for use in Water District 1, 2, and the lower portions of Water
Districts 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 (below 6,500 feet). The Lower South Platte calibrated coefficients were developed for use in
Water District 64. See SPDSS Task 59.1 technical memorandum for more information. 

\\(^2\\)See RGDSS Historic Crop Consumptive Use Analysis report. 

\\(^3\\)The high altitude portion of the SPDSS study area is defined as areas west of the foothills (above 6,500 feet) including Water
Districts 23, 47, 48, 76, and 80 and the upper portions of Water Districts 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. See SPDSS Task 59.1 technical
memorandum for more information.

StateCU also recognizes other crop coefficient identifiers, although the user must appropriately indicate the
consumptive use method using the flag in the control file (flag1 in the \*.ccu file) and in the case of a
monthly consumptive use analysis, the flag in the crop coefficient file (ktsw in the \*.kbc file).

There are two common approaches to developing ‘locally calibrated coefficients’. The first approach
involves developing calibrated crop coefficients using data from local studies. This method has been
predominantly applied to high altitude irrigated grasses based on lysimeter studies but could be developed
for any crop type. Locally calibrated crop coefficients should be applied with the PCU equation under
which they were originally developed. 

The second approach involves calibrating coefficients based on a more accurate but data-intensive method
and then applying the calibrated, less precise method back in time. This approach can be valuable at
locations where the data required for the more precise method is limited while the data for the less precise
method is more complete. For example, locally calibrated coefficients can be developed using a daily PCU
method (i.e., ASCE Standardized Penman-Monteith) then adjusting the SCS Blaney-Criddle coefficients.
The daily method is applied with daily data for the same period as the SCS Blaney-Criddle method with
monthly data. The ratio of the average monthly PCU from the daily method to the average monthly PCU
from the SCS Blaney-Criddle method is used to adjust the SCS Blaney-Criddle coefficients until the average
monthly PCU estimates match. The calibrated SCS Blaney-Criddle coefficients are then applied with the
SCS Blaney-Criddle method back in time. This method can be applied to any crop type. 
 