If ground water information is available, the user can choose to consider ground water supply in the
calculation of water supply limited consumption. Estimates of monthly historical surface water supply 
available to the crops, based on historical diversion records and maximum irrigation efficiency from the
river to the crop, are input for each structure. In addition, estimates of historic monthly pumping can be
input if available, or monthly pumping capacity can be input to limit the StateCU estimate of pumping. As
described in [Section 4.15](../InputDescription/415.md), the annual time series input file provides the annual acreage under a ditch that is
flood irrigated by surface water; sprinkler irrigated by surface water; flood irrigated by surface water and
supplemented by ground water; and sprinkler irrigated by surface water and supplemented by ground water. 

StateCU provides three approaches for considering both surface water and ground water supplies. The
approach can vary by structure and by year, as defined by the variable __`gmode`__ in the annual time series input
file (see [Section 4.15](../InputDescription/415.md)). Soil moisture accounting is as described in [Section 3.2](../ModelDescription/32.md) for all approaches on acreage
with a surface water source. If pumping estimates are not available, StateCU only estimates pumping to
meet irrigation water requirement; excess ground water is not withdrawn to fill the soil moisture reservoir. If
a historical pumping file (\*.pvh) is provided with the model scenario, excess ground water will be used to
fill the soil moisture reservoir if storage is available. Total well capacity defined for the structures in the
irrigation parameter input file is distributed to ground water sprinkler and ground water flood lands based on
acreage. If pumping estimates are provided to StateCU, they are distributed to ground water sprinkler and
ground water flood lands in proportion to remaining crop demands. Note that if pumping estimates are
provided in the historical pumping file (\*.pvh), then the well capacity assigned in the irrigation parameter
file is not used. Missing surface water supply is handled as described in [Section 3.2](../ModelDescription/32.md), with the surface water
portion of supply estimated through proration. 

__`gmode`__`= 1` - Maximize Supply Approach:

The following sequence is used to maximize available surface water and ground water supplies by ditch
system. This approach allows demand for irrigated parcels within a ditch system served by sprinklers to be
met by available ground water and allows parcels without a ground water supply to have first ‘priority’ for
available surface water. 

1. Ground water is pumped to meet the irrigation water requirement on sprinkler irrigated acreage
identified as having a ground water source using the maximum sprinkler efficiency, limited by the
acreage-prorated permitted pumping capacity.
2. Surface water is applied to meet the irrigation water requirement for acreage without a ground water
source at the appropriate application efficiency (prorated based on the flood irrigated surface water
acreage and the sprinkler irrigated surface water acreage).
3. Any remaining surface water is applied to meet the irrigation water requirement for flood irrigated
acreage identified as having a ground water source at the maximum flood irrigation efficiency.
4. Any remaining surface water goes to soil moisture storage or is available for return flow.
5. Ground water is pumped to meet any remaining irrigation water requirement on flood irrigated lands
identified as having a ground water source using the maximum flood efficiency, limited by the acreageprorated permitted pumping capacity. 

__`gmode`__`= 2` - Mutual Ditch Approach:

The following sequence is used if the ‘mutual ditch’ approach is chosen. This approach provides equal
shares of surface water to all acreage under a ditch system, regardless of application method or whether
individual parcels also have the ability to use ground water. 

1. Surface water is applied evenly to all acreage under a ditch system to meet the total irrigation water
requirement. 
2. Ground water is pumped to meet any remaining irrigation water requirement on sprinkler irrigated
acreage identified as having a ground water source using the maximum sprinkler efficiency, limited by
the acreage-prorated permitted pumping capacity.
3. Ground water is pumped to meet any remaining irrigation water requirement on flood irrigated acreage
identified as having a ground water source using the maximum flood efficiency, limited by the acreageprorated permitted pumping capacity. 

__`gmode`__`= 3` - Mutual Ditch Approach with Ground Water Pumped to Meet Sprinkler Acreage Irrigation Water Requirements:

The following sequence is used if the ‘mutual ditch’ approach is chosen, but sprinkler irrigated acreage use
ground water to meet their irrigation water requirements. This approach allows surface water shares to be
available for recharge, if a ground water supply is available to meet crop demands, even if irrigation water
requirements on lands only using surface water are not met.

1. Surface water is allocated to all acreage under a ditch system. Acreage served only by surface water or
flood irrigated acreage with available ground water apply their share of surface water to meet irrigation
water requirements.
2. Ground water is pumped to meet irrigation water requirement on sprinkler irrigated acreage identified as
having a ground water source using the maximum sprinkler efficiency, limited by acreage-prorated
permitted pumping capacity. Surface water shares for this acreage are made ‘available for recharge’.
3. Ground water is pumped to meet any remaining irrigation water requirement on flood irrigated lands
identified as having a ground water source using the maximum flood efficiency, limited by acreageprorated permitted pumping capacity. 