There are often several water rights used to irrigate acreage associated with a structure. StateCU allows a
user to define a single administration number to differentiate senior water rights from junior water rights.
StateCU also allows the administration number to reflect historic call data on a monthly or daily time step.
Consistent with Colorado water law, water supply limited crop consumptive use by priority first assigns
diversions to senior priorities and then to junior priorities. In addition, an ‘other’ category of river
diversions is used in the analysis to reflect diversions (and associated depletions) that exceed the decreed
water rights associated with a structure or farm supplies not diverted at the river (supplied in the drain file,
\*.dra). The water coloring junior or senior to a user-defined administration number is maintained through
the consumptive use analysis, including water placed and withdrawn from soil moisture. 

If the user chooses to consider soil moisture in the analysis, as described in [Section 3.2](../ModelDescription/32.md), water is stored in
separate soil ‘accounts’ (senior, junior, other) based on the priority of the water diverted. If excess senior
water is available to the soil reservoir and the soil reservoir is full, junior water will be ‘spilled’ to make
room for the senior water. There are two options in the model control file (\*.ccu) for extracting water from
the soil zone to meet crop demands: based on proration and based on priority. If the proration option is
selected, water is extracted from the soil zone from the senior, junior, and other ‘accounts’ in proportion to
the amount of water in each account. If the priority option is selected, senior water is used first to meet crop
demands. 

If the user chooses to prorate consumptive use for structures with missing water supply data, as described in
[Section 3.2](../ModelDescription/32.md), historic diversions are estimated by dividing the prorated water supply limited consumptive use
by the use efficiency associated with the structure. This estimated water supply is then distributed into 
water right priorities based on the water rights associated with the structure. Detailed water budget output
produced by the program indicates whether water budget terms were ‘Calculated’ or ‘Prorated’. 

Because the total monthly diversion used in the water-supply limited calculation may not reflect junior water
rights that are in priority only a portion of the month, StateCU allows daily diversion to be used to determine
the percent of monthly diversions that are senior or junior to the input administration numbers(s). 