
The **StateCUascept** tool calculates and creates monthly irrigation water requirement (IWR) (*.rcr)
and excess effective precipitation (*.eep) files based on the ASCE Standardized (ASCE Std.)
Penman-Monteith Evapotranspiration (ET) equation for locations that may be at a distance and
different elevation from climate stations for use in StateCU. The tool will generate a new 
StateCU response file (*.rcu) that references the new *.rcr file to run StateCU. 

The tool can also output formatted StateCU climate data files (*.tem, *.prc, *.fd) that can
be used in a StateCU Modified Blaney Criddle analysis. The data are filled, aridity corrected,
and can be for a location that is distant and at a different elevation from a climate station. 

Locations are read from StateCU files or from an excel based template with user supplied data, 
or locations can be supplied by the tool for primary climate station locations. If the StateCU
*.str file is used, the tool will use REST services to query location data from Hydrobase.
The tool uses quality corrected and filled climate station data sufficient for ASCE Std.
along with some gridded climate data that are provided in a database with the tool and
adjusts data away from climate stations at grid points that are about 2.5 miles apart.

Crop types and acreages to run the tool are extracted from the StateCU *.cds file. The tool
will look in the same directory as the *.rcu file. If there is no *.cds file, the tool will
ask the user if they want to assume grass, all crops, or water for shallow water evaporation.

The tool can also output monthly and daily data in a text (*.csv) or Excel (*.xlsx) summary file including 
reference ET, potential evapotranspiration, IWR, and effective precipitation that can be useful without StateCU.

The tool and a quick start user quide can be downloaded from: 
https://dnrftp.state.co.us/CDSS/Software/StateCU/StateCUascepttool.zip